All right let's get started with react.
So in this video we're going to do a high level talk about front and frameworks talk about Riak specifically
a little bit and get us ready for our first component in re-act So our objectives will be to first of
all the fine print and frameworks and secondly to describe react at a high level what is a front and
framework.
Well it's a javascript library that handles dominant relation meaning that something like Jay query
isn't quite a front end framework.
It gives you tools to manipulate the DOM But fundamentally you're still doing the dominant emulation
yourself.
You're still deciding you know which lies to put on the screen.
Maybe some div that you want to take off what you want to append.
That's all your decision but oftentimes on a front end framework those decisions are made for you based
on how you write your code.
Another thing front and frameworks often support is handling navigation using HCM L5 push state.
This allows you to change the address bar of your web browser using javascript without ever refreshing
the page.
This often leads to a better user experience because the page doesn't have to refresh on link click
or submit.
One other thing front and frameworks often do is state management.
So in something like Jay Querrey you often have to keep track of all the data in your program either
in the DOM or by creating some objects yourself but with a front end framework there's often tools provided
to help you keep track of your data.
So what does the front end framework look like in practice.
Well the front end frameworks are always run on the client side in the browser and our back end framework
still stays on the backend.
So remember when we talked about the combinations of tools that were going to be using in this course
on the front end we'll have reacts on the back and will have no Jap's.
But how does Riak get loaded on the page.
Well when you first go to a Web site you make a get request an issue get to some site.
Let's say Google dot com and slash at the end will that no js server sees the requests for Slash and
responds with some index page some HMO.
The browser sees that a similar response and it starts parsing the page at some point it will hit a
script tag and that script tag will tell it where to go to get the script that it needs.
So the browser when it sees that script tag will make a get request for the javascript file.
And here I am and I call it bundled.
Yes because when we use well-packed later on with re-act the name of the file will be bundled jazz.
So we make a get request for that bundled up as the server returns that bundle jast to us.
So now once we have bundled J.S. the browser runs that file and inside of there will have all of our
javascript code that we need to run in the application which includes reacts re-act Dom and the javascript
that we write as well.
So when this file runs in the browser when the browser loads it re-act will essentially be in control
of the down.
This is when re-act takes control of the page and makes all the decisions about DOM manipulation.
Now is a good time to talk a little bit more about re-act itself.
What is react well it was released by Facebook in 2013 as an open source project and it's really not
a front end framework by itself it's more of a library for making composable components.
We'll see what that means more and more as we go through this course but re-act is mostly concerned
with the view it's concerned with displaying stuff on the screen.
In fact every component needs to have a render method so you won't be creating too many components and
react that don't deal with the view in some way.
Reactor's often supplemented with other libraries so other libraries that are commonly used with re-act
are reactor outer for which deals with navigation in your app and redux which is a single place to store
your state in the application.
We'll dive into both of these libraries throughout the course.
I mentioned before composable components when using react.
What does that really mean.
Well it's kind of the core philosophy in reacts and the idea here is when I'm building an application
like you see here where we've got some messages and a navigation bar the first thing you might think
about doing is well how do I just get one message to display when you do that you'll often create or
you will create a component for that message and maybe at first you'll just hard code all this data
but eventually you'll make it so that it's parameterized so you can pass in information about the picture
and the user and the time.
And then once you've made it more general you can use that component over and over again in the app.
So all four of these can be the same component that deals with the message but once you get a list of
messages like this you probably want something else to contain all those messages.
So at this point you might make a component for the message list.
Now the next thing you might work on in the application would be the nav bar.
And once you've gotten all these components working the last thing you might want to do is make them
all work together as one app.
So as you can see here we've got many different components that we've composed together to build one
whole application.
And this is really the approach we're going to be taking throughout the course.
We're going to build small components that get larger and larger until we have one whole working application.
All right that's enough for the intro so let's actually see some reac code in practice.
Next up we're going to be talking about creating our first component.